>> A major archeological
discovery in Mexico that may
have Atlantean connections.
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
An incredible discovery in a
remote cave in Central Mexico
is effectively rewriting
human history in the Americas.
In an article published
in the journal,
"Nature," the researchers
point out that up until now,
mainstream archeology had
put human colonization
of the Americas at
approximately 19,000 BC.
The discovery indicates humans
in central Mexico 11,000 years
before that, placing humans in
the Americas 30,000 years ago.
An international
team of archeologists
found nearly 2,000
artifacts in the remote cave
in Zacatecas, Central Mexico.
About a dozen of the artifacts
date back from 30,000
BC to 24,000 BC and include
pointed projectile points
and stone shavings
from tool-making.
So where did these people
in the cave come from?
Jack Cary, founder of The
Paranormal Intelligence Agency
and author of "Paranormal
Planet" on this new discovery.
How could ancient Atlantis
play into this discovery?
>> The archeologists determined
that during a period of its
occupation, there was no
evolution in the type of tools
being used by the people
for a full 750 generations.
And then, miraculously, all
of a sudden, a generation
is born that has much
higher technology.
And there could have been
a diaspora from Atlantis,
and it's possible that
these migrants from Atlantis
actually jump started,
again, the people's need
and understanding of technology.
>> What could this 750
generation pause in technology
with a sudden jump
innovation mean?
>> The same tools that they
were using they used for 750
generations, which is
thousands of years,
without the need to improve
upon those tools or without
the ability to do so.
We have to ask the
question why that is.
Why were these people stunted
in their evolution of technology
when it didn't seem to be
that way in other parts
of the world, and
then, all of a sudden,
they just become
a different kind
of people with high culture.
It is an interesting anomaly.
>> What could be the Atlantean
connection to these people?
>> I believe Atlantis existed
for thousands of years before
the last Ice Age.
The melting of the last Ice
Age completely wiped it out.
It appears as though Atlantis
existed back in 19,000 BC.
What we don't know is Atlantis
was such a seafaring people
that they actually made it
to North and South America
around the same
time period that we
see this jump in cultural
and technological development
by these prehistoric people.
>> For Jack Cary, this discovery
is extremely important for his
research into Atlantis and
Indigenous peoples around
the world.
>> In my research, it's
extremely important
to understand where these
different ethnic groups
originated because that largely
has to do with their oral
histories.
And it's in many of
these oral histories
we will find the only
accounts of these people
having interacted
with beings who seem
to have been far more advanced.
>> There were no human
remains, and therefore,
no DNA found in the cave, but
what are the theories about
the shared DNA of
cultures around the world?
>> Archeologists believe
that the people who became
the Native American tribes
of North America came from
the same people who became
Chinese and Japanese.
They are known as the
Melanesian people.
Fascinating to me
is that they have
found slight Melanesian
genomic traces in some
of the Indian tribes
in the Amazon basin.
But no DNA was recovered
from the site, therefore,
they cannot determine the true
ethnicity of the people at this
time.
>> The question remains, who
were these people and where did
they come from?
But one thing is
certain, this discovery
means current
archeological theory
about the timing of humans in
the Americas must be thrown out
and begs the question,
what else don't we know?
What else can we learn
about our ancient origins?
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."